---
layout: project
date: 2022-05-07
image: /assets/images/projects/eaasi-logo.png
title: Emulation as a Service Infrastructure (EaaSI) 
summary_text: "A Mellon and Sloan funded distributed emulation network that allows for in-browser access to emulated systems."
active: true
start_year: 2017
website: https://www.softwarepreservationnetwork.org/emulation-as-a-service-infrastructure/
tags: projects
---

The Emulation as a Service Infrastructure (EaaSI) project is a joint Alfred P. 
Sloan and Andrew R. Mellon funded effort to create a stable, 
distributed service for accessing legacy software through emulation.
EaaSI is a cloud-based service that streams the output of containerized emulators 
to a web browser interface. Users can upload, download, and configure emulated
environments and then share them with others in the network. This lowers the 
barrier of entry for emulator use by removing a significant amount of the
technical setup usually required to get virtualized environments configured.

Dr. Kaltman managed Carnegie Mellon University's node in the network between 2017-2019. 
CSUCI's network node was configured in June 2022 to help with multiple 
SHFT projects. Currently, we are working on a study regarding the user
constraints on emulation configuration and management with EaaSI and other
local virtualization schemes. Summer undergraduate research fellow (SURF) 
students are configuring multiple test environments to access local
CSUCI library data, as well as project files from the [ETC analysis] project.
The hope is to publish a comparative study of the issues involved with
configuring emulated environments for non-expert use.

Additionally, SHFT is planning on using EaaSI to study historical game 
design tools and archived virtual reality projects. 

[ETC analysis]: /pages/projects/2022-05-12-etc-data-analysis/